Title: Alegria!
Date: 2006-08-21 16:05:39
Slug: 20060821-alegria
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Tags: rant

<p>OK, <a href="http://aquariusoft.org/~mbscholt/index.php?rantid=427">a while back</a> I said we where going to <a href="http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/">Cirque du Soleil</a>'s show Alegria in Amsterdam. Well, we did the 2nd of August, and thoroughly enjoyed the show. They have a huge shiny white tent, which is cool to watch when approaching their site. Of course, they have lots of [prizy...] merchandise in the tent before the main one, which we did the Dutch way: looky looky, no buy-ee :)</p>

<p>Anyway, after being seated, we marvelled at how small the tent seemed. When they started, however, everything was in its place. It's really amazing how well their music and acts fit together. And the music alone gave me pleasurable goosebumps :)</p>

<p>The single flaw of the evening was a poor acrobat bouncing headfirst into the public off the X-shaped trampoline fitted in the podium. It was that bad, that we finally had to clear the tent for about fifteen minutes, in which he was brought outside and to the hospital. We heard afterwards when walking out of the tent when the show was over that he was stable and conscious.</p>

<p>But the show must go on, and we enjoyed the tragic Spanish music and the cool acts from the Cirque's awfully flexible acrobats, and of course their amusing clowns. It's really worth your money :)</p>

<p>PS: if you think their merchandise a bit overprised, buy yourself a soda drink for about 4 EUR [yeah, that's overprised too, but enjoyable in the pause], and take the large plastic cup home ;)</p>