Title: A Rebel Geek and His Ideas for an Open Company
Date: 2006-03-02 21:26:53
Slug: 20060302-a-rebel-geek-and-his-ideas-for-an-open-company
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Tags: olddammit

<p>After capitalizing the title right [I hope], I wanted to share a little anecdote with you. A guy of the same year of my Computer Science study has a traineeship where he's profiling a large information system. He could choose between writing his application in Java or .NET with C#, and his mentor gave the advice to do it in C# as "that's new, and you'll need to learn it anyway".</p>
<p>Now I think his subject is very interesting, but the stance of his tutor brought out the rebel in me. It may be 'wise' from a carrier perspective where big companies use .NET for all their applications and more, but I think we -- as academic, larger thinking computer scientists -- should create awareness of alternatives for microsoft's platform to prevent vendor lock-in. He posed that ".NET will be available for Unix too", but as you know, that's only because of <a href="http://tirania.org/blog/">Miguel de Icaza</a>'s efforts on <a href="http://www.mono-project.com/">Mono</a>. A project that's silently ignored by microsoft itself, while Redmond claims it's an open platform. It's bad enough that so much workstations at our department are windows machines, and that when a student encounters a Linux [or Minix] machine, he or she stares at it in amazement, then turns and leaves the room. Of course that leaves us in a quiet room, but it's not the way an academic Computer Science student should [re]act.</p>

<p>As you know, I quit working after 4.5 years of work with my current employer. I quitted because I want to devote myself and my time to my study, but as I was leaving they send around a note saying their new development server was to be hosted this and this and this [internal] projects, and was windows based. This in contrary to an old development server that's running <a href="http://www.debian.org/">Debian GNU/Linux Woody</a> and runs the same services. Well, almost the same, as they where trading Apache for IIS. *cough* Anyways, I was one of the forces behind introducing another browser [yeah, it was Internet Explorer for ages there, while the company is a respected creator of web applications], new web standards [read: standard Cascading Style Sheets etc] and I even think one of the only people there pushing Open Source Software in general. It's that lots of companies are this way and I understand their reasoning, but I'm not entirely comfortable in such an environment.</p>

<p>Another idea that's been floating in my head is to start a little enterprise of my own. Of course after I successfully ended my study [or at least have the finish firmly in my reach]. A company building web based applications, stand alone applications that do fun stuff with connections to those web applications and livecd's. Not yet a clear portfolio as you can see, but it's just an idea I've been playing with. Without even mentioning this idea I've already heard several people voicing wishes to join a new, small, driven club with "fun" projects, where "fun" is very subjective of course. But it would be fun to have a geek playground and making money with clever solutions too. Also "fun" is that it won't have to be a company with an office building where you have to travel too each and every day. Members of our team can be located everywhere on the globe, just like the <a href="http://morphix.org/">Morphix community</a>. Of course I'd like to hear from people with ideas or an interest in participating etc.</p>

<p>Or am I a weird guy and completely alone in this?</p>