content/posts/monaspaced.md, before:

Title: Monaspaced
Started: 2023-11-13 22:27:26
Date: 2023-11-13 22:27:26
Slug: monaspaced
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Status: published
Category: projects
Tags: dev, energy, meta, web
Image: https://dammit.nl/images/content/monaspaced.png

![Monaspaced](https://dammit.nl/images/content/monaspaced.png)

As some of you might know, GitHub with their GitHubNext team recently released [their own monospace font, Monaspace](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace) in five variants. I was intrigued, because they actually made for an interesting take on the concept, and it was not just one font, but a whole family with each their [own characteristics](https://monaspace.githubnext.com/).

As I was a tad tired of the font family used on dammIT an idea grew, and when [Xe](https://xeiaso.net/) challenged me to do it, I implemented it.

Behold, using all five Monaspace families, from Argon as main body typeface, Krypton for headings, Neon for [codeblocks](https://dammit.nl/vim-reloaded.html), Radon for [admonitions](https://dammit.nl/admonitions.html) and Xeon for, errr, ah yes, commenting fields!

Enjoy the mon~~o~~aspaced dammIT HQ.

Commit message:

Used internal links, added a good example of all styles in one post

content/posts/monaspaced.md, after:

Title: Monaspaced
Started: 2023-11-13 22:27:26
Date: 2023-11-13 22:27:26
Slug: monaspaced
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Status: published
Category: projects
Tags: dev, energy, meta, web
Image: https://dammit.nl/images/content/monaspaced.png

![Monaspaced](https://dammit.nl/images/content/monaspaced.png)

As some of you might know, GitHub with their GitHubNext team recently released [their own monospace font, Monaspace](https://github.com/githubnext/monaspace) in five variants. I was intrigued, because they actually made for an interesting take on the concept, and it was not just one font, but a whole family with each their [own characteristics](https://monaspace.githubnext.com/).

As I was a tad tired of the font family used on dammIT an idea grew, and when [Xe](https://xeiaso.net/) challenged me to do it, I implemented it.

Behold, using all five Monaspace families, from Argon as main body typeface, Krypton for headings, Neon for [codeblocks]({filename}../posts/vim-reloaded.md), Radon for [admonitions]({filename}../posts/admonitions.md) and Xeon for, errr, ah yes, commenting fields!

Another example where it all comes together is [this post on Firefox]({filename}../posts/firefox-deb-ubuntu-2204.md).

Enjoy the mon~~o~~aspaced dammIT HQ.
