content/posts/prettifying_gnome.md, before:

Title: Pretty Gnome
Started: 2016-02-24, 2017-04-26 16:17:00, 2017-06-03, 2018-11-25, 2018-11-26
Date: 2018-11-26 16:17:00
Slug: pretty-gnome
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Category: howto
Tags: linux, desktop, howto
Status: draft
Image:

This little howto has been long in the making, as I wanted to do a write-up of how I themed and tweaked my Gnome(-Shell) based desktops to my liking for quite a while. My desktop environments are based on Ubuntu, but this howto can be applied to any distribution and OS that runs Gnome-Shell. The setup described here is tested on at least Gnome 3.28 and 3.30 (latest Gnome release), so for example works on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS and 18.10.

On Ubuntu, I installed the 'vanilla' version of Gnome-Shell by installing the `vanilla-gnome-desktop` package and choosing the `GNOME on Xorg` session in the GDM login screen. Otherwise, you get the Ubuntu tweaked version of Gnome-Shell, which might suite your tastes, but has the bar on the left side and some garish orange-based colours. I like orange, but the changes that `vanilla-gnome-desktop` does to the bootscreen and the login screens are welcome.


## Get-out-of-my-way, but still provide me useful information

I use a bunch of Gnome-Shell extensions to provide some extra convenience and declutter the environment.

Start with the [User Themes](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/19/user-themes/) extension, as that enables custom themes for Gnome-Shell, about which I'll speak later on.

[Media player indicator](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/55/media-player-indicator/): Control MPRIS Version 2 Capable Media Players. Shows cover art, remote control and some more handy stuff when you're playing your music (or clips).
Related, [Volume mixer](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/858/volume-mixer/) is an extension for GNOME Shell allowing separate configuration of PulseAudio devices and output switches. It features a profile switcher to quickly switch between pinned profiles and devices.

Information at a glance I get from the [OpenWeather](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/750/openweather/) extension, and the [System monitor](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/120/system-monitor/) one. The former speaks for itself, the latter shows you information about how busy your CPU, memory, network, fans and so are. I found out that disabling the showing of information in the *disk* tab (just uncheck the three checkboxes) solves a long-standing annoyance I had with unlocking my systems when a network share was mounted: apparently the disk stats cause the lockscreen to wait for a long time (until something times out), which caused me to wait for sometimes longer than a minute to stare at the GDM lockscreen 'unlocking' itself. Especially annoying after a suspend and/or network change.

Some space can be saved and cleanness achieved by using the following few extensions:

[Remove drop-down arrows](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/800/remove-dropdown-arrows/): Removes the drop-down arrows which were introduced in Gnome 3.10 from the App Menu, System Menu, Input Menu, Access Menu, Places Menu, Applications Menu and any other extension that wants to add drop-down arrows.

[No Title Bar](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1267/no-title-bar/): removes the title bar, moves the window title and buttons to the top panel.

[TopIcons Plus](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1031/topicons/): This extension moves legacy tray icons (bottom left of Gnome Shell) to the top panel. It is a fork from the original extension from ag with settings for icon opacity, saturation, padding, size and tray position, along with a few minor fixes and integration with the Skype integration extension.

I have them show on the right side of the bar, and set Opacity to 255 (full opaque); icon size at 16, as the default 24 is larger than the other icons in the panel.

[Darker overview](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1177/darker-overview/): Make overview background darker so even white text is readable on bright or colorful wallpapers. This also can remove the vignette. I set the darkness to 8, and disable the vignette.

Some useful additions are:

[Refresh wifi connections](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/905/refresh-wifi-connections/): This extension adds a refresh button to the Wifi connection selection dialog to request for a network scan manually.

[Disconnect wifi](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/904/disconnect-wifi/): Adds a Disconnect option for Wifi in status menu, when a network is connected. Shows a Reconnect option, after network is disconnected.

[Caffeine](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/517/caffeine/): Disable the screensaver and auto suspend. Useful when giving a presentation, watching a movie or when you're staring too long at your code and the screen saver kicks in.


## Looks

Theming is an essential part of user experience for my desktop environment. Both shell and GTK themes are provided by the excellent [Materia theme](https://github.com/nana-4/materia-theme). I clone the repository in a directory (for example in `~/workspace/themes`) with a `git clone https://github.com/nana-4/materia-theme.git` (you can use SSH if you have a GitHub account), and then from the `materia-theme` dir install the theme with `sudo ./install.sh`. With gnome-tweak-tool (Tweaks in the application menu), I chose the Materia-dark-compact variant, which provides a nice dark theme, and makes the widgets a bit more compact, so I can cram in more... stuff :)

The icons I use with this sleek theme, are the ones from the [Papirus project](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme), which you can obtain rather easily. For example, on Ubuntu, add the PPA:

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:papirus/papirus
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install papirus-icon-theme

Use the Tweaks application again to set the Icons to Papirus-Dark.

In Ubuntu 18.10, I'm happy to use the Yaru cursor theme (comes by default there), so I leave that one unchanged. On lower versions (e.g., 18.04 LTS), I can recommend installing the Breeze icons:

    sudo apt install breeze-cursor-theme

and set it correspondingly under Cursor in Tweaks' Appearance tab.

As I spend quite some time in terminals, and tend to stick with the Gnome Terminal, I used [Gogh](https://github.com/Mayccoll/Gogh) to choose a matching pleasant colour scheme. Gogh [supports a lot of colour schemes](https://mayccoll.github.io/Gogh/), so choose one to your liking. I found Afterglow to match nicely with the Materia theme, and it has pleasant colours with enough contrast, but without blinding me (which is why I choose dark-ish themes in general).


## More tweaks

I like winding down with nightlight enabled devices, so I enabled that on Gnome too. By default the screen gets way too yellow/brown in my opinion, so I used [this howto on OMG Ubuntu](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/07/adjust-color-temperature-gnome-night-light) to set the value to 5500, which still nicely filters the blue away, but keeps the colours usable.

Commit message:

A note on getting Firefox to play nice

content/posts/prettifying_gnome.md, after:

Title: Pretty Gnome
Started: 2016-02-24, 2017-04-26 16:17:00, 2017-06-03, 2018-11-25, 2018-11-26, 2019-02-26
Date: 2018-11-26 16:17:00
Slug: pretty-gnome
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Category: howto
Tags: linux, desktop, howto
Status: draft
Image:

This little howto has been long in the making, as I wanted to do a write-up of how I themed and tweaked my Gnome(-Shell) based desktops to my liking for quite a while. My desktop environments are based on Ubuntu, but this howto can be applied to any distribution and OS that runs Gnome-Shell. The setup described here is tested on at least Gnome 3.28 and 3.30 (latest Gnome release), so for example works on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS and 18.10.

On Ubuntu, I installed the 'vanilla' version of Gnome-Shell by installing the `vanilla-gnome-desktop` package and choosing the `GNOME on Xorg` session in the GDM login screen. Otherwise, you get the Ubuntu tweaked version of Gnome-Shell, which might suite your tastes, but has the bar on the left side and some garish orange-based colours. I like orange, but the changes that `vanilla-gnome-desktop` does to the bootscreen and the login screens are welcome.


## Get-out-of-my-way, but still provide me useful information

I use a bunch of Gnome-Shell extensions to provide some extra convenience and declutter the environment.

Start with the [User Themes](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/19/user-themes/) extension, as that enables custom themes for Gnome-Shell, about which I'll speak later on.

[Media player indicator](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/55/media-player-indicator/): Control MPRIS Version 2 Capable Media Players. Shows cover art, remote control and some more handy stuff when you're playing your music (or clips).
Related, [Volume mixer](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/858/volume-mixer/) is an extension for GNOME Shell allowing separate configuration of PulseAudio devices and output switches. It features a profile switcher to quickly switch between pinned profiles and devices.

Information at a glance I get from the [OpenWeather](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/750/openweather/) extension, and the [System monitor](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/120/system-monitor/) one. The former speaks for itself, the latter shows you information about how busy your CPU, memory, network, fans and so are. I found out that disabling the showing of information in the *disk* tab (just uncheck the three checkboxes) solves a long-standing annoyance I had with unlocking my systems when a network share was mounted: apparently the disk stats cause the lockscreen to wait for a long time (until something times out), which caused me to wait for sometimes longer than a minute to stare at the GDM lockscreen 'unlocking' itself. Especially annoying after a suspend and/or network change.

Some space can be saved and cleanness achieved by using the following few extensions:

[Remove drop-down arrows](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/800/remove-dropdown-arrows/): Removes the drop-down arrows which were introduced in Gnome 3.10 from the App Menu, System Menu, Input Menu, Access Menu, Places Menu, Applications Menu and any other extension that wants to add drop-down arrows.

[No Title Bar](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1267/no-title-bar/): removes the title bar, moves the window title and buttons to the top panel.

[TopIcons Plus](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1031/topicons/): This extension moves legacy tray icons (bottom left of Gnome Shell) to the top panel. It is a fork from the original extension from ag with settings for icon opacity, saturation, padding, size and tray position, along with a few minor fixes and integration with the Skype integration extension.

I have them show on the right side of the bar, and set Opacity to 255 (full opaque); icon size at 16, as the default 24 is larger than the other icons in the panel.

[Darker overview](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1177/darker-overview/): Make overview background darker so even white text is readable on bright or colorful wallpapers. This also can remove the vignette. I set the darkness to 8, and disable the vignette.

Some useful additions are:

[Refresh wifi connections](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/905/refresh-wifi-connections/): This extension adds a refresh button to the Wifi connection selection dialog to request for a network scan manually.

[Disconnect wifi](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/904/disconnect-wifi/): Adds a Disconnect option for Wifi in status menu, when a network is connected. Shows a Reconnect option, after network is disconnected.

[Caffeine](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/517/caffeine/): Disable the screensaver and auto suspend. Useful when giving a presentation, watching a movie or when you're staring too long at your code and the screen saver kicks in.


## Looks

Theming is an essential part of user experience for my desktop environment. Both shell and GTK themes are provided by the excellent [Materia theme](https://github.com/nana-4/materia-theme). I clone the repository in a directory (for example in `~/workspace/themes`) with a `git clone https://github.com/nana-4/materia-theme.git` (you can use SSH if you have a GitHub account), and then from the `materia-theme` dir install the theme with `sudo ./install.sh`. With gnome-tweak-tool (Tweaks in the application menu), I chose the Materia-dark-compact variant, which provides a nice dark theme, and makes the widgets a bit more compact, so I can cram in more... stuff :)

The icons I use with this sleek theme, are the ones from the [Papirus project](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme), which you can obtain rather easily. For example, on Ubuntu, add the PPA:

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:papirus/papirus
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install papirus-icon-theme

Use the Tweaks application again to set the Icons to Papirus-Dark.

In Ubuntu 18.10, I'm happy to use the Yaru cursor theme (comes by default there), so I leave that one unchanged. On lower versions (e.g., 18.04 LTS), I can recommend installing the Breeze icons:

    sudo apt install breeze-cursor-theme

and set it correspondingly under Cursor in Tweaks' Appearance tab.

As I spend quite some time in terminals, and tend to stick with the Gnome Terminal, I used [Gogh](https://github.com/Mayccoll/Gogh) to choose a matching pleasant colour scheme. Gogh [supports a lot of colour schemes](https://mayccoll.github.io/Gogh/), so choose one to your liking. I found Afterglow to match nicely with the Materia theme, and it has pleasant colours with enough contrast, but without blinding me (which is why I choose dark-ish themes in general).

Firefox works nicely with the Materia theme, but some websites do no style inputs correctly, so you can encounter dark inputs with dark text, which, well, is not optimal. To counter this, use the [Text Contrast for Dark Themes](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/text-contrast-for-dark-themes/) addon.


## More tweaks

I like winding down with nightlight enabled devices, so I enabled that on Gnome too. By default the screen gets way too yellow/brown in my opinion, so I used [this howto on OMG Ubuntu](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/07/adjust-color-temperature-gnome-night-light) to set the value to 5500, which still nicely filters the blue away, but keeps the colours usable.
