content/posts/twenty-years-of-blogging.md, before:

Title: Twenty years of blogging
Started: 2023-12-21 17:51:40
Date: 2023-12-21 20:23:40
Slug: twenty-years-of-blogging
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Status: published
Category: projects
Tags: dev, energy, life, meta, social, tech, web
Image: https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124_crop.png

Twenty years ago - not long after the turn of the century - I was tinkering with [some PHP code](https://github.com/aquatix/dammit/commits/master?after=7a084bfa7c0e36f63d52c6cc2154fb68a20a6cd7+384&branch=master&qualified_name=refs%2Fheads%2Fmaster) to replace [a static HTML page I had been experimenting with](https://web.archive.org/web/20030829140416/http://aquariusoft.org/~mbscholt/). It was becoming my private website, in the classic sense of the word: where I put stuff I am interested in, about who I am, and in this case also to introduce my homeserver called 'xcalibur', after the well-known sword of the King with his round table.

'Static HTML' is not entirely correct here; it was already a bunch of PHP pages, some of which even provided almost-realtime information about the system it was running on (see below).

At the time I was a Computer Science student at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, had just acquired the hardware of the 'xcalibur' server from an uncle that was into tech and photography (and smoking, I still remember the smell of the first few days of the tower running in our attic, venting his chain-smoking odours). It was intended to host a few websites and to tinker around with other networking stuff.

I wanted to exercise my English writing skills, and thought it fun to have an echo room out on the wild wild web. When Christmas holiday 2003 came around, I had some free time on my hands, [implemented a MySQL-backed rant box]({filename}20031221-my-very-own-rantbox.md), and have been blogging ever since.

In [the 2017 post where I described moving the weblog to Pelican]({filename}moved-to-pelican.md), I already wrote a small timeline and reasons not to use things like Wordpress (did barely exist when I started). It has always been my toy, my venting place, and my online documentation system, especially later on, when I started writing howto articles; mainly to condense what I had to research and fix recently, for future reference by myself and hopefully a few others.

I love having my own place here; it has always been independent from whatever platform-du-jour, has never been involved in ads, and has been a welcoming refuge for my thoughts. I certainly plan to keep it around for many years, and maybe have a few visitors enjoying my work :)


For fun, here are some early posts in 2004, not much changed personally :D ([Screenshot from the Internet Archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20040205135520/http://aquariusoft.org:80/~mbscholt/) with bigger font and slightly other list-styling than the original, so that's why the navigation looks cramped)

![Weblog homepage in early 2004](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20040205_rantbox.png)


The homepage in november 2003, where I noted that I wanted to create my own weblog, but thought it too involved for what I had to say (not much, I thought):

![XCalibur homepage in 2003](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124.png)


Real-time server information in november 2003 (fancy!):

![XCalibur server info in 2003](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124_serverinfo.png)

Commit message:

Twenty years of tending my own garden

content/posts/twenty-years-of-blogging.md, after:

Title: Twenty years of blogging
Started: 2023-12-21 17:51:40
Date: 2023-12-21 20:23:40
Modified: 2023-12-21 22:10:40
Slug: twenty-years-of-blogging
Location: Home
Authors: Michiel Scholten
Status: published
Category: projects
Tags: dev, energy, life, meta, social, tech, web
Image: https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124_crop.png

Twenty years ago - not long after the turn of the century - I was tinkering with [some PHP code](https://github.com/aquatix/dammit/commits/master?after=7a084bfa7c0e36f63d52c6cc2154fb68a20a6cd7+384&branch=master&qualified_name=refs%2Fheads%2Fmaster) to replace [a static HTML page I had been experimenting with](https://web.archive.org/web/20030829140416/http://aquariusoft.org/~mbscholt/). It was becoming my private website, in the classic sense of the word: where I put stuff I am interested in, about who I am, and in this case also to introduce my homeserver called 'xcalibur', after the well-known sword of the King with his round table.

'Static HTML' is not entirely correct here; it was already a bunch of PHP pages, some of which even provided almost-realtime information about the system it was running on (see below).

At the time I was a Computer Science student at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, had just acquired the hardware of the 'xcalibur' server from an uncle that was into tech and photography (and smoking, I still remember the smell of the first few days of the tower running in our attic, venting his chain-smoking odours). It was intended to host a few websites and to tinker around with other networking stuff.

I wanted to exercise my English writing skills, and thought it fun to have an echo room out on the wild wild web. When Christmas holiday 2003 came around, I had some free time on my hands, [implemented a MySQL-backed rant box]({filename}20031221-my-very-own-rantbox.md), and have been blogging ever since.

In [the 2017 post where I described moving the weblog to Pelican]({filename}moved-to-pelican.md), I already wrote a small timeline and reasons not to use things like Wordpress (did barely exist when I started). It has always been my toy, my venting place, and my online documentation system, especially later on, when I started writing howto articles; mainly to condense what I had to research and fix recently, for future reference by myself and hopefully a few others.

I love having my own place here; it has always been independent from whatever platform-du-jour, has never been involved in ads, and has been a welcoming refuge for my thoughts. I certainly plan to keep it around for many years, and maybe have a few visitors enjoying my work :)

Twenty years I have been tending my own garden. I am really curious to how it will look in twenty years time.


For fun, here are some early posts in 2004, not much changed personally :D ([Screenshot from the Internet Archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20040205135520/http://aquariusoft.org:80/~mbscholt/) with bigger font and slightly other list-styling than the original, so that's why the navigation looks cramped)

![Weblog homepage in early 2004](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20040205_rantbox.png)


The homepage in november 2003, where I noted that I wanted to create my own weblog, but thought it too involved for what I had to say (not much, I thought):

![XCalibur homepage in 2003](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124.png)


Real-time server information in november 2003 (fancy!):

![XCalibur server info in 2003](https://dammit.nl/images/content/20231221_dammit_xcalibur_20031124_serverinfo.png)
